CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to `dittodb`

This outlines how to propose a change to `dittodb`.


### Fixing typos

Small typos or grammatical errors in documentation may be edited directly using
the GitHub web interface, so long as the changes are made in the _source_ file.
We love getting help with this!

* **Yes, please:** you edit a roxygen comment in a `.R` file under the `R/` directory.
* **No, thanks:** you edit an `.Rd` file under the `man/` directory.

### Prerequisites

In order to not waste effort and time, before you make a substantial pull request,
you should file an issue and make sure someone from the team agrees that it’s a 
problem. If you’ve found a bug, create an associated issue and illustrate the 
bug with a minimal [reprex](https://www.tidyverse.org/help/#reprex).

### Pull request process

*  We recommend that you create a new git branch for each pull request (PR).
*  Look at the GitHub Actions build status before and after making changes.
*  We use [roxygen2](https://cran.r-project.org/package=roxygen2), with
[Markdown syntax](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/roxygen2/vignettes/markdown.html),
for documentation.
*  We use [testthat](https://cran.r-project.org/package=testthat). Contributions
with test cases included are easier to accept.
*  New code should generally follow the tidyverse [style guide](http://style.tidyverse.org).
You can use the [styler](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=styler) package to
apply these styles, but please don't restyle code that has nothing to do with 
your PR.  

### Code of Conduct

Please note that the `dittodb` project is released with a  [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). 
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

Commit message:

Add link to developing dittodb vignette to contributing /md

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to `dittodb`

This outlines how to propose a change to `dittodb`. For detailed information 
about developing `dittodb` see the [developing `dittodb` vignette](articles/developing-dittodb.html).


### Fixing typos

Small typos or grammatical errors in documentation may be edited directly using
the GitHub web interface, so long as the changes are made in the _source_ file.
We love getting help with this!

* **Yes, please:** you edit a roxygen comment in a `.R` file under the `R/` directory.
* **No, thanks:** you edit an `.Rd` file under the `man/` directory.

### Prerequisites

In order to not waste effort and time, before you make a substantial pull request,
you should file an issue and make sure someone from the team agrees that it’s a 
problem. If you’ve found a bug, create an associated issue and illustrate the 
bug with a minimal [reprex](https://www.tidyverse.org/help/#reprex).

### Pull request process

*  We recommend that you create a new git branch for each pull request (PR).
*  Look at the GitHub Actions build status before and after making changes.
*  We use [roxygen2](https://cran.r-project.org/package=roxygen2), with
[Markdown syntax](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/roxygen2/vignettes/markdown.html),
for documentation.
*  We use [testthat](https://cran.r-project.org/package=testthat). Contributions
with test cases included are easier to accept.
*  New code should generally follow the tidyverse [style guide](http://style.tidyverse.org).
You can use the [styler](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=styler) package to
apply these styles, but please don't restyle code that has nothing to do with 
your PR.  

### Code of Conduct

Please note that the `dittodb` project is released with a  [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). 
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.
